Previously on
Roswell, New Mexico...
Diego, this is Max.
Max, this is...
The ex-fiancé.
Why is Kyle locked
out of your lab?
What kind of work are you doing?
Max, I love you.
I am asking you
to trust me with this.
We found this on
Michael's trailer.
This is Helena's handwriting.
Helena and Flint
are working together.
(grunts)
I want to see Alex.
You will.
After you build
me this bomb.
(phone ringing)
Hello?
Uh, he's out.
Can I take a message?
Yeah, let me just get a pen.
Thanks, I'll let him know.
(door opens)
Hi. Didn't know you
were stopping by.
LIZ:
Did you take a...
a whole vial of my antidote?
Uh, maybe.
Those are from when
you were treating my amnesia.
Why are you looking
through my desk?
I was looking for a pen.
Your bank called. They verified
that deposit you asked about.
Max, a-a dose
that strong could be
incredibly taxing.
Liz, look at me.
I'm fine.
(chuckles)
You're so stressed trying to
keep me from getting stressed,
it's becoming very
friggin' stressful.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
And I'm sorry I wasn't
honest about the lab.
I know
any scientific inquiry
into alien physiology
scares you...
but I was so scared
about hurting your heart,
I-I didn't think
about hurting you.
I want us to be a team.
I want us to make
big choices together.
And I don't want
to go anywhere
you're not gonna follow me.
That's all I want, too.
I love you.
And I'm always on your team.
Once we know our friends
are safe, I'll, uh,
go to the lab with you
and we can
box up all that stolen equipment
and return it
and destroy the evidence.
It's-- I-I guess we haven't
heard anything from Michael?
Uh, nothing.
No, Isobel and I would know
if he was badly injured
or in serious danger.
So I'm choosing
not to freak out.
I spoke to Helena's
boyfriend Dirk.
He said before she left,
she was getting nonstop calls
from a 575 number.
The Sunset Mesa facility
where Mimi DeLuca lives.
Wait, Mimi was calling your mom
before the abductions? Uh...
Does Maria know?
Cell service is out
because all
the tin hat-wearing tourists
crowding the airwaves, but I
left her very detailed messages.
Mimi was always obsessed
with alien movies.
Maybe fiction and reality
are blurring.
Your mom is working
with Flint Manes,
who spent years making
an alien-killing weapon
while at Caulfield.
What if your mom found out
Rosa was killed by an alien?
She'd want revenge.
Then I have to find her
and tell her
that an alien
also resurrected Rosa.
Kyle e-mailed. He wants me
to stop by the hospital.
I think he found something.
So don't call your mom
till I get back, okay?
Okay. Okay.
You and Kyle are friends?
(scoffs)
What?
After you two
investigate,
you can grab a beer with Diego
and compare notes.
Yeah, I don't think they drink
beer. It's not keto.
Listen, why don't you meet
Isobel and I at the Pony at 4:00
in case we can't reach
you by phone.
We'll decide
our next steps together.
MARIA:
Mom?
I need to talk to you right now.
We can go after this chapter.
I just got a message from Liz.
Mom... when you
disappeared,
it was Helena Ortecho
that took you.
(exhales):
Oh. Helena.
You didn't have butyricol in
your system when they found you.
You know Liz's mom.
You'd remember if you
spent a month with her.
Mom... are you covering
for Helena?
Everything is going to be fine.
I'm not fine.
Alex and Michael are missing.
Helena is a lot of things,
but she won't hurt your friends.
I'm sure.
No.
You're the blonde.
The one that Rosa
was afraid of.
Hi, Mimi.
No. Stay away from me.
Up-bup-bup-bup-bup.
I'm your cool Aunt Isobel.
Hopefully we can
get to know
each other under better
circumstances sometime.
Sure about this, DeLuca?
Desperate times call
for desperate alien invasions.
What are you talking about?
(high-pitched ringing)
ISOBEL:
Show me what happened
the night you disappeared, Mimi.
(gasps)
Oh, thank God you came.
Mimi. My beautiful friend.
MIMI:
I saw her.
I saw her in a vision.
I didn't believe you. I had
to see it with my own eyes.
You saw her?
You saw Rosa?
ROSA:
Is this my necklace?
(laughter)
LIZ:
I never thought
we'd get to have
this stupid
fight again.
This is a good
thing, Helena.
Your daughter is alive.
She needs you.
When Jim Valenti was dying,
I came home to say goodbye.
But he kept saying
Rosa could live again,
that she was preserved.
But you didn't believe him.
No one ever believes us.
If Rosa is alive, it means
Jim was telling the truth.
Which means everything else
he said could be true,
like aliens are real
and Jesse Manes has a weapon
that can kill them.
It means I have
to go to war, Mimi.
First, you need some shoes.
Get out of my memories, Isobel.
(grunting)
(huffs)
God.
It's just like the time
when I tried to get
into your head without consent.
She kicked me out.
What do you mean,
get in my head?
(elevator bell chimes)
Hey.
Hey, sorry.
The line for the UFO Emporium
shut down Main Street.
What do you-- What you got?
I found this at Flint's,
but it's from a
florist my dad used
when he was in the
doghouse with my mom.
I finally guessed the password
today. Rosa's birthday.
The only thing on it is a
note my dad wrote to Helena.
It's a lot of romantic
crap followed by details
for a storage unit he had
up near Haystack Mountain.
Okay, let's go. I'll drive.
I-I can't.
I got patients to see.
You're on your own this time.
This entire process
would be more efficient
if I could attach
the release chamber
to the other side.
now is not
the time to get creative.
Time is running out.
Follow the blueprints exactly.
CHARLIE:
You don't look like
an obedient soldier.
Who'd she take to force
you to do her bidding?
A friend.
It's complicated.
Why are you helping her?
Jenna's free.
Flint Manes has a sniper rifle
on the roof
pointed at her bedroom window.
If I step out of line
and something happens to...
You'll never forgive yourself.
I'll never
forgive myself anyway.
Helena has me
formulating a pathogen
that I invented when I was 17.
It's a poison
that dismantles specific DNA.
If targeted, your death
is quick and ugly.
A bleeding-from-every-orifice
kind of deal.
Wow.
If only you'd been invited
to more parties in high school.
I thought that
I was saving people.
Okay, imagine a weapon
that you could
drop into a populated city,
and the only people targeted
would be al-Qaeda leaders
and their direct descendants.
Okay? In the right hands,
my weapon could prevent
innocent civilian casualties
and save our troops.
I'm guessing these
are not the right hands?
Why am I building the bomb
when the inventor
is under Helena's thumb?
I do chemicals, not mechanics.
And technically it's not a bomb.
It's a catalytic toxin atomizer
that was developed
in a top secret operation
involving weapons specialists
from both the Army
and the Air Force.
Project Shepherd.
One more question for you,
Charlie.
Whose DNA is that poison
you're making gonna target?
Judging from conversations
I've heard
between Helena and Flint,
it's alien DNA.
Like, literal aliens.
♪ ♪
He's only supposed to take
a drop when he has amnesia.
It's not vitamin C.
In high doses it could cause
surges of adrenaline
that could be dangerous.
No offense, but you sound
like a mom.
Like a real mom, the kind
who actually gives a duck.
Oh, I just figured out what
autocorrect is. It's hilarious.
Speaking of moms,
ours hasn't
reached out to any
of your old dealers
and she hasn't showed up
at any of the churches in town,
so you got any other ideas?
Mm, it's CrashCon.
We usually find her wearing
the loudest T-shirts and
flirting with the richest nerds.
Yeah, but Flint and Jesse Manes
hate aliens.
I mean, it's literally
their only hobby.
(laughs softly)
If she's with them, I'm betting
she's lost her affection
for the simple charms
of UFO novelty-kitsch.
Wait.
If you were gonna
get revenge on aliens,
CrashCon is the perfect place.
There's all kinds of
conspiracy theorists and press.
You know how mom
loves attention.
Y-You think something's
gonna happen tonight?
Papi is there by himself,
setting up.
I think he should come home.
Getting ready for a hot date?
Yeah, uh...
My dad loves carnivals.
Guess he just wants
to bring his dying daughter
for one more dance
in the Wacky Shack.
(sighs)
You don't seem
up to a carnival.
(sobbing)
I'm not.
But I love my dad.
Though I'm not sure he'll be
able to enjoy himself
if I look like a corpse.
And my fingers
are really numb.
So...
What are you doing?
Honestly...
I have no idea.
Let's see.
Talk me through it.
I'm not gonna let you
put that on me.
Steph...
I'm a surgeon.
Steady hands.
Okay.
Let's see.
For the record...
you don't need it.
You don't have
to lie to me.
I know I look like the hospital
ghost of your wildest dreams.
Look, I just want
to look like, like me.
I get it.
Well, thanks for
the assist.
I'm guessing that guard wouldn't
let me through with bolt cutters
unless I had an officer
of the law present.
Oh, well, don't be
jealous, Evans.
Valenti has me
on desk duty.
So this little adventure
is my lunch break.
Valenti did the right thing,
giving you your job back.
Yeah, well,
you know, apparently
some local bartender
gave her reason to doubt
the events the night
of the gala were my fault.
So... I owe you.
I've lost track of who owes
who what at this point.
Yeah.
Well, this is the one.
Shall we?
Whoa.
What is that?
It looks like embryonic fluid.
There must've been
a pod in here.
And I'm officially
in too deep.
I understood
literally all of that.
You know, I miss the, uh,
misty water-colored days
of managing rowdy
drunk rednecks
and meth heads.
Yeah, well, you know,
once we get my sister back,
I'm gonna need
a fifth of whiskey
and some supervision,
so half of that
might come true.
Bolt cutters.
Thanks.
CAMERON:
Look, Watson.
A clue.
I'm not Watson, you're Watson.
You're definitely Watson.
Mmm.
Okay there.
Okay, I'm ready
to jump back in there,
find out about
her month on the lam.
Take off that bracelet,
I can bring you in with me.
You go. I'll wait here in case
you pass out off that chair.
I think that's the nicest thing
you've ever said to me.
We just had
the floors done.
Mimi...
I know you think
you're doing
the right thing, but Helena
is holding people hostage.
We have to understand
her motive.
You all think
I'm losing my mind.
But I just...
slip out of my time
and into a different one
every once in a while.
Sometimes Maria's.
Or Mama's.
Other women
in our future or past.
I saw you when you were a baby.
The sky was red.
What can you tell me
about your time with Helena?
She had you for a month.
We were in a motel.
We watched movies.
We laughed and gossiped.
She wanted to trigger
my visions...
gather information.
What information?
What did you tell her?
What did you see?
What's important is,
Helena will take
care of our girls.
I'm not afraid.
That's enough.
I tried.
She's fading.
She's tired.
It's harder
when she's tired.
Come on, Mom.
I'll take you back
to Sunset Mesa.
Maria, you just have to look
for the signs in the water.
You have to believe.
Go on, you'd better hurry.
Hurry where?
CrashCon closing night!
You don't want to
miss the fireworks.
(chuckles)
You always loved the fireworks.
(paper rustling)
MAX:
Okay, all these notes are
from Helena to Jim Valenti.
This is from the week Rosa died.
I mean, even 20 years
after their affair,
she's still writing and
he's still saving her letters.
Ah, pining after an Ortecho
for years and years.
It's so weird.
Who does that?
This is a...
this is a receipt.
It's a money transfer he
made around the same time.
He paid Daniel Fuller
a thousand bucks.
Fuller was
the county coroner.
Okay, we still
don't know how Noah
got Rosa's body
into the pod, right?
But Jim had Project Shepherd
connections to the morgue.
So maybe if Noah
knew about Jim
and knew that
he'd be grieving Rosa,
he could have told Jim
where to find the pod,
right, and-and maybe he didn't
even take the pod
back until after Jim died.
I mean, this is all
a bunch of conjecture, I...
Jim pulled me aside at high
school graduation, he said
I was the kind of guy the
sheriff's department could use.
Look, I mean, maybe...
I mean, he never let on,
but maybe he knew
I was an alien, right?
Maybe he knew more than that.
Okay, Evans?
Breathe. You're...
you're looking a little clammy.
What's going on?
Nothing. (chuckles)
No, see?
Something's going on,
and you're gonna tell me
or I'm out, I swear to God.
Okay, you can't tell anyone.
Yeah, you know I won't.
Okay.
I've been taking
this antidote that Liz made.
No... (stammers)
She doesn't know.
But it's rebuilding
some of my memories
from before
the 1947 crash, right?
I was just a little kid,
but I had a destiny.
I had responsibilities.
Right, you're the, the savior.
Yes-- well, maybe.
But I-I was starting
to remember these symbols
from our old language, right?
(stammers)
I remember what they mean,
but, uh, but...
it's like the meaning
is just out of reach.
And I'm...
I'm out of the antidote.
And, you know,
Liz is getting suspicious.
So...
Hmm.
No.
Oh, I-I didn't say anything.
Really?
Can you tell that to your face?
I'm not using my friendship
with your girlfriend
to steal alien steroids for you.
Okay, our
partnership
has limits.
It's done.
So now what?
You inject my spine
with your mind-eraser?
(chuckles) We only used
the butyricol on Jenna Cameron,
because there was
still work to be done.
And Flint was afraid
she'd ruin it for us.
You told Flint
Charlie was creating
a toxin that would kill aliens.
But if you wanted
aliens dead,
you'd be testing it
on me right now.
'Cause that's
what I would do
if I was a criminal mastermind.
I needed Flint
for the schematics
and the muscle.
Our agendas didn't need
to align perfectly.
You don't have to do this.
If you kill anyone tonight,
Liz and Rosa
will never look at you the same.
That ship has sailed.
Besides, I'm not killing anyone.
If disaster never strikes,
justice won't be served.
Do you want to see Alex or not?
(indistinct chatter)
(calliope music playing)
LIZ (groans):
The kitchen is swamped.
The UFO nerds are rioting.
Papi, seriously...
okay, we need
you at the café.
Are you kidding?
Look at this line.
I can't close down.
Here, have a churro.
Papi, please.
I have a bad vibe,
all right, a gut feeling
I can't shake.
Who are you? Elizabeth
Ortecho doesn't do feelings.
She believes
in facts
and evidence.
No, I do feelings now--
I've evolved.
Here, Diego.
Have a churro.
Please.
Papi, do this for me.
(sighs)
Okay.
Okay, all right, Papi.
(humming)
(door opens)
Guerin?
You're okay.
Yeah.
Guerin, you were right--
they used me to get to you.
My dad hit me
over the head,
and then he swiped
a piece of the console.
And then Flint showed up
with a gun to my head.
Did anyone hurt you?
Nothing I can't handle.
Helena's been
weirdly motherly.
She's-she's bringing me
clothes and meals...
Your leg.
Yeah, they took the prosthetic.
I tried to bludgeon
my brother with it.
(laughs)
Come on, use your powers.
Get me out of this.
Helena dosed me with something.
I'm basically human
till it wears off.
Okay, then find something
that'll break the cuff
or my wrist-- I don't care!
Alex,
tonight at CrashCon,
your dad plans
to release a toxin
that kills anyone
with alien DNA.
(clattering nearby)
Hola.
Amparo, señor.
It's the second Saturday.
Deep cleaning day.
All right, well, this time do
a better job dusting the top
of the kitchen cupboards.
¿Comprendo?
(chuckles)
Helena made Charlie and I
build an identical device,
but one that... targets
a different DNA.
She somehow got her hands
on your dad's cells.
She knows your dad
killed Kyle's dad.
She wants revenge, but she wants
him to take himself out.
(water running)
When he pulls the trigger
on us tonight,
your dad's gonna die
because of a device I built.
ALEX:
No. That is not on you. Okay?
Now let me out of here.
MICHAEL:
I can't.
The atomizer will kill anyone
in your dad's direct line.
You are safer here.
Are you serious?
And I got to go.
I'm gonna come back for you.
These letters
are beautiful.
Didn't really know
she was capable
of love like this.
Can I keep
some of these?
For blackmail purposes.
Max Evans, surrounded
by beautiful women.
I told you in middle school,
man, it gets better.
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
And you are
beautiful.
You're
such an idiot!
You don't comply with
a kidnapper's ransom demands.
Without telling me.
Alex was in trouble.
He had to go.
Mikey, where are
Alex and Charlie?
They're safe.
Your mom doesn't want
to hurt them.
Look, I don't get it.
Does she want to kill aliens?
Mm-mm, no.
She's avenging
her murdered lover.
ISOBEL:
Oh, my God,
I love a good telenovela.
This atomizer contains
the poison that kills anyone
with alien DNA.
I need you to destroy it.
Does Flint know
that you have it?
Flint. Jesse
really broke that boy.
Some people were never
meant to be parents.
You can go when
you're done.
The door's unlocked.
Flint's rifle
shoots blanks.
W-Well, what's to stop me
from leaving now?
The knowledge that
that deadly device
only exists
because of you.
You decide.
I'm off to CrashCon.
I hear there will be
quite a show.
COOK:
Here you go.
♪ You say what you say... ♪
You have to eat.
I need you to be
all filled up
to support the meltdown
I'm gonna have
once I process everything
we've learned today. Yeah?
♪ You play all the right games ♪
♪ You always try to be
everything to everyone... ♪
I want to help.
Your mom's not the villain here.
All right?
She-She's going about this
all wrong, yes.
But Manes is already
a murderer.
I mean, if he'd succeeded
today...
I know, I know...
I could have lost
almost everyone
I care about
in a moment.
I remember every day what it was
like to lose you and Rosa.
I don't think I could
survive that again.
And she could've built
a decoy bomb that
wouldn't have hurt anyone.
He'd just get angry
and do it again.
Yeah, but he's not the only one
that this would hurt.
I mean, the headlines
if she gets caught?
"Illegal Mexican immigrant
slaughters decorated American
vet via bioweapon."
People will line up to lay
bricks at the border wall.
But, hey, maybe the president
will talk about my family
at his rallies.
That's gonna be fun.
That's not gonna happen.
Right?
This will get covered up,
like every other strange death
in this town.
In case you
haven't noticed,
those cover-ups don't tend
to protect the Mexicans.
Even when...
Even when Rosa died.
You can say it, Liz.
It's okay, it's fair.
Rosa got blamed,
white people didn't.
Okay? I get it.
I know you're on my side,
but you don't get this.
And that's not your fault,
that's just the reality
of our experiences.
If I mess up... if I so much
as roll through a stop sign,
any
Mexican who came before me.
And it hurts any Mexican
who comes after me.
I used to think that nothing
would ever change that,
but lately I think...
maybe if something extraordinary
happened, it could.
Extraordinary? Like
what you're doing in your lab?
I've discovered something
that could be the key
to curing people who
have no hope otherwise.
I can't walk away.
So you're gonna turn
my family's stem cells
into the hottest commodity?
No.
I, I won't, I-- we'll find
a way to synthesize it
or replicate it.
Is this about the people
you're trying to save
or about becoming
the poster girl
for immigrants everywhere?
You want the president
to talk about your family
because of you.
Because you saved the world.
If those in power
see what happens
when people are
given opportunity...
You want the glory.
I want recognition.
I want to be the
example I never had.
And people
who want glory,
they-th-they're just in it
for selfish reasons.
People like Jesse Manes
want the glory.
He, he wants to be
a-a big American hero.
He wa-- he wants the parades,
he wants the medals.
I-I-If he sets off
his alien atomizer at CrashCon,
a handful of
twentysomethings will die
of some m-mysterious ailment
and it's barely
gonna make the news.
That's not what
he wants.
We're missing part
of his plan.
First,
something violent.
Large-scale,
that'll draw media attention.
And then, once all eyes
are on Roswell...
He'll blame the violence
on the aliens.
He only gets his parade
if he makes people afraid,
and then he destroys
the thing that they fear.
If he makes people think
that you're terrorists
before he kills you.
ANNOUNCER:
Ladies and gentlemen,
terrestrial and otherwise,
the man of the hour...
Graham Green!
(cheering)
Oh, look. It's the little green
CrashCon man.
Hey, you guys shouldn't be here.
I was held
hostage, Max.
I deserve
to ride the Sizzler
until I barf cotton candy,
and maybe
watch a bad man die.
LIZ:
You guys, we think that...
GRAHAM:
Hello, loyal fans
and devoted supporters!
Your patience is about
to be rewarded.
Today, I am thrilled--
nay, honored--
to show you the result of
years of painstaking work,
the moment we've all
been waiting for.
Irrefutable
extraterrestrial proof!
A bona fide
alien artifact!
(crowd gasps)
(crowd murmuring)
FLINT:
Chow time.
Come on, you've been
through worse.
You'll be
out of here tomorrow.
If you're doing this
to try to impress Dad,
it is never gonna work.
I'm not trying
to impress Dad.
His shutdown of Project Shepherd
was an infirm decision,
but he's trained me
my entire life to take it on.
See you later, brother.
Going to CrashCon.
Rocket launch.
Hey, wait.
Wait.
Do you remember when Mom
used to drive us to the res,
and, and you would sit
at the loom with Granddad?
Weaving stories.
When was the last time
you made something, Flint?
Anything that wasn't built
to destroy?
Around the time that
Mom decided that to leave Dad,
she had to leave us.
She didn't know what
he would do to us.
us.
Me and Clay are fine.
Hell, even Gregory's coming
to see Dad today.
Wait, what?
Gregory's at CrashCon?
Later.
You're wrong.
Dad's victims.
Sure, he beat me up,
but what he put the rest of
you through was abuse, too.
He made you watch
while he kicked my ass.
Shut up, Alex!
He scared you into thinking
that there was only one type
of man that you could become.
You're so pathetic.
You don't know me at all!
This has nothing to do with Dad
and everything to do
with our history.
Aliens are a foreign threat.
They're invaders.
(grunting)
(laughter
and indistinct chatter)
Alex's piece must have been
the last one that Manes needed
to finish
building it.
Where's he been keeping
the rest of this?
You can get a closer look
at Graham Green's UFO Emporium.
For a nominal fee.
Kid.
Kid, I-I seen that thing before.
Your mother built that
back in the old barn.
I don't know what it is, but
it is definitely explosive.
I always wondered
what happened
to the pieces.
Maybe Harlan
or Tripp Manes gathered
'em up, rebuilt it.
Yeah, but if Manes is gonna
use that to blow up CrashCon,
it's gonna make Graham Green
look like the bad guy.
No one's gonna think
an alien planted it.
Unless they follow
the money.
I got an alert from
my bank this morning.
A $10,000 deposit had cleared.
You think
Manes set it up
so that the investigation
would lead to you?
If I become the world's
first alien terrorist
and he takes me out,
the world cheers.
Guys, you need to do
whatever you can
to get as many people out
of here as possible, okay?
Get help.
Hey, where are you going?
Michael and I have studied
this material before.
It-It-It's part tech,
but it's also part organic.
And if it's part organic,
that means it can be killed.
I got to get back to my lab.
Uh, Liz.
Take my car.
Hey, not so fast.
Selfies with the artifact
will be available
exclusively at my UFO Emporium.
Oh, I just wanted a final look.
I mean, I did donate it,
didn't I?
You sold it.
And there's plenty more
where that came from.
See, well, I'm a collector.
So, you know, I have a, uh,
a fossilized Martian placenta
that you would love.
Uh, that's yours
for the right price.
We'll be in touch.
(phone camera clicking)
Do you think we can destroy it?
MICHAEL:
No.
The pieces want
to be together,
and now
that it's complete,
if we break the bonds
with brute force,
we risk
a violent reaction.
(voices whispering indistinctly)
Max,
what are you doing?
(voices whispering indistinctly)
(exclaims)
What the hell
just happened to you?
Huh? Nothing.
(chuckles)
I think this is a remote.
I... I think this
controls a ship.
It's a what?
SANDERS: Hey, kid.
That stage feel sticky to you?
I mean, what dumbass varnishes
the top of the stage?
Wait, if this...
if this is fresh varnish,
this whole platform is
set up like a tinderbox.
There's gonna be fireworks
tonight.
One spark'll light a fire.
I mean, this whole thing,
the whole platform
will go up.
This giant remote goes kaboom,
aliens will be framed
as terrorists.
You have to get out of here.
What? No, I'm not
going anywhere.
Max, you are
all sorts of worked up
right now.
What happens
when you're worked up?
(panting):
Sparks fly.
(exhales)
Right, okay.
Yeah, I'll go. I'll go.
Seriously, Max, now.
(exhales)
You don't want to do this.
Give me the atomizer,
Charlie.
(breathes deeply)
This is the social
event of their year.
How are we gonna convince
the geeks to leave geek prom?
You need to leave
geek prom, Maria.
You have alien DNA.
And you have alien proteins.
If you're staying,
I'm staying.
My mom said I should be
here for the fireworks.
Catch the fireworks
on Fourth of July.
Well, she said
I should look
for the signs in the water,
but I don't see any water.
What?
Oh, no.
Alex's brother Greg.
ROSA:
If Jesse sets off a DNA bomb,
Greg dies.
Come on.
(mutters)
Maria. Hey.
Hey.
You... have a kid?
I have 12 kids, um, under ten.
They're my students.
Figured I'd...
treat this little hometown visit
like a field trip.
Ah.
You look just like that girl
I went to high school with.
Yeah. Rosa was my-my cousin.
I...
um, have a message
for you from Alex.
He wants you
to meet him at the...
Crashdown.
Yeah.
Free milkshakes
for all the kids.
(chuckles)
So, Rosalinda here
is gonna help you
round up all the kids,
get 'em on the bus.
She's great with kids.
Absolutely...
was not fired
from every babysitting job
she ever had.
Be great.
Walking, please.
Okay.
("All I Really Want"
by Alanis Morissette playing)
♪ Do I stress you out? ♪
♪ My sweater is on backwards
and inside out ♪
♪ And you say,
"How appropriate" ♪
(quietly):
Destroy the organic
cell membrane.
Disable the nanotech.
♪ But I can't... ♪
♪ Help it ♪
♪ And there I go jumpin' ♪
♪ Before the gunshot
has gone off... ♪
(gasps)
(calliope music playing)
FLINT:
Looks good, Helena.
You here to seduce
your next accomplice?
You were supposed to stay
at the house.
I cleaned up the mess
at the house, Helena.
You should be thanking me.
Enjoy your evening.
(coughing)
(alarm chirps)
(indistinct chatter)
It's looking good, son.
Your father must be very proud.
(footfalls approach)
Master Sergeant.
A word, please, sir.
All right, everybody on the bus.
Here we go.
(sighs): Why are children
always so sticky?
Look.
ROSA:
That's our sign-- Pisces.
I saw it first this time.
A sign in the water.
What?
That's a water sign.
Make sure all the kids
get on the bus.
Hey, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa.
Hey, safety is that way.
I was supposed to look
for the sign in the water,
and I...
Max.
Flint's here.
Is that the atomizer?
Maria, you have to
get out of here now.
("I Am Dust" by Gary Numan
playing)
♪ All around us ♪
♪
(grunting)
♪ All around us ♪
(grunts)
♪
(grunting)
♪ We were lost ♪
MARIA:
So sorry.
Sorry.
♪ In a world of grim obsession ♪
Watch it.
♪ We were torn ♪
Sorry.
♪ From our life of isolation ♪
You have to believe.
♪ We were pulled ♪
♪ From the path
of least resistance ♪
(grunting)
♪ And the songs we sang ♪
♪ What became of us? ♪
♪
CAMERON:
Everyone head
to the exits, please.
We have an emergency.
MARIA:
Sorry, excuse me.
I came here
to kill aliens today.
Might as well start with you.
(grunting)
(chuckling)
What are you gonna do, Evans?
Shoot a soldier?
At the busiest event
of the year?
It's too late--
I already pulled the trigger.
Now, if I were you,
I'd spend
the next 60 seconds
saying my goodbyes.
♪ For you ♪
♪ We are yours... ♪
If I'm gonna die today,
you're coming with me.
(yelling)
(both screaming)
Oh, hey, hey, hey, hey.
(blowing sharply)
Trust me, it's for your health.
(sighs) All it's gonna
take is one tiny spark,
and this whole place
is gonna blow.
(fireworks whistling)
They're shooting the
fireworks into the wind.
Manes must have messed
with the trajectory.
Well, let's just
keep the embers
off our highly flammable
family heirloom explosive,
then, shall we?
There's accelerant in the straw.
Hey! There's fire! Run!
Run!
Michael.
Michael, I'm cold.
Well, it's getting hotter
by the minute, Iz.
No.
Something is
wrong with Max.
You go.
I will handle this.
No.
You don't have your
abilities back yet.
I'll hold off the flames.
You go find him. Go!
You know, I actually started
to believe that you had changed.
Yeah, you never could
tell friend from foe.
I actually
counted on it.
Hey.
I know exactly
who you are.
You were gonna let
all of these people die,
and you were gonna let
the aliens take the blame.
It's high time they got blamed
for something, I think.
I'm gonna drag them
from the shadows.
Yeah, and then what?
You're gonna use the atomizer
to kill them all?
Then you become some hero
by destroying
created?
American children
are gonna read
about the events of tonight
in their history books.
Dad, listen...
And don't worry
about collateral damage, son.
That's just an unfortunate
aspect of war.
You know that better
than anyone, Alex.
You're gonna become
your own collateral damage
if that thing goes off.
Helena Ortecho switched
the devices.
That's not gonna kill aliens.
DNA.
If it goes off,
you are going to die
in a puddle of your own blood.
What are you doing?
Are you bluffing
to protect the aliens?
What I'm doing is
I'm trying to protect
our family.
Dad, if that goes off,
it kills all
of your direct descendants.
Flint and Greg
are-are somewhere in here.
And I don't care
how much I disgust you--
I am still your son!
Alex, Dad,
there's a fire
over in the, uh...
What is that?
(Max and Flint screaming)
No.
(screaming)
LIZ:
No.
Max. Max.
Max.
You okay?
You're okay, all right,
you're okay.
You're fine.
No.
Max.
♪ We are yours... ♪
Max!
(fireworks popping)
(gasps, pants)
♪ We are yours ♪
♪ We're waiting for you... ♪
Maria.
Maria, are you all right?
♪ Are yours ♪
♪ We're waiting... ♪
Hey. Hey.
Greg, you've got to get out
of here-- it's too dangerous.
I know a weapon when I see one.
What are you
about to do?
Alex, I begged you
to stay away!
ALEX:
No, Guerin, stop!
You don't know
what he is, son.
I know what he means to Alex.
(fireworks popping)
(Liz panting)
Liz, what happened?
My God, is that
Flint Manes?
Yes.
Let me take over.
There's a fire by the stage.
Graham Green's alien thing
is gonna explode.
Take my bag. There's
a chemical agent.
Solution A is a catalyst...
No, I don't know
enough chemistry
to make a cupcake, Liz.
God, you are the only one
who can save an entire carnival
of people from a bomb.
I can't lose him again.
♪